.\" pomofile(5) - Pomodoro file format
.\"
.TH POMOFILE 5 "2026-02-04" "VERSION" "Pomodoro File Format"
.SH NAME
pomofile \- File format for pomodoro session records
.SH DESCRIPTION
Files with
.B .pf
extension contain pomodoro session records organized by date and subject.
These files are processed by
.BR pomointer (1)
to generate time reports.
.SH SYNTAX
The file has optional sections in the order described below.
.SH "CONFIGURATION SECTION"
Global settings for the file:
.TP
.B #include "filename"
(OPTIONAL) Include another .pf file.
Can appear on any line before task definitions.
Example:
.RS
.EX
#include "configs.pf"
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B DATE = DD/MM/YYYY
(OPTIONAL) Defines the date for records in this file.
If omitted, the file modification date is used.
Example:
.RS
.EX
DATE = 13/05/2026
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B POMO = MINUTES
(OPTIONAL) Defines the duration of each pomodoro in minutes.
If omitted, 30 minutes is used.
Example:
.RS
.EX
POMO = 120  
.EE
.RE
.SH "ABBREVIATIONS SECTION"
(OPTIONAL) Defines abbreviations for long subject names.
Syntax:
.RS
.EX
ABBREVIATION = Full Name
.EE
.RE
Example:
.RS
.EX
DS = Data Structures
AI = Artificial Intelligence
OS = Operating Systems
.EE
.RE
.SH "TASKS SECTION"
List of subjects/tasks with pomodoro counts.
Syntax:
.RS
.EX
SUBJECT_NAME: ****
.EE
.RE
Each asterisk (*) represents ONE pomodoro.
.PP
Complete example:
.RS
.EX
#include "configs.pf"

DATE = 13/05/2026
POMO = 120

DS = Data Structures
AI = Artificial Intelligence

Portuguese: ****
Mathematics: **
DS: ***
AI: *
Physics: ***
.EE
.RE
.SH "PROCESSING RULES"
.IP 1. 4
Blank lines are ignored
.IP 2.
Processing is case-sensitive
.IP 3.
Subject names cannot contain colons (:)
.IP 4.
Abbreviations must be defined before use
.IP 5.
Includes are processed first, recursively
.SH "COMPLETE EXAMPLE"
.EX
#include "defaults.pf"

DATE = 13/05/2026
POMO = 50  

DS = Data Structures
OS = Operating Systems
CALC = Differential Calculus

Portuguese: ****   
Mathematics: **   
DS: ***          
OS: *           
CALC: *****    
.EE
.SH "TIME CALCULATION"
Total time is calculated as:
.PP
.EX
total_time = pomodoros × pomodoro_duration
.EE
.PP
Example: 4 pomodoros × 120 minutes = 480 minutes = 8 hours
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
.IP \(bu 3
Maximum 10 levels of recursive inclusion
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pomointer (1),
.BR date (1),
.BR printf (1)
.SH AUTHOR
José Isac Araujo Monção <joseisac@tutamail.com>
.SH HISTORY
The format was created in 2026 for study time management.
